# FetchDock Server
## WIP - Do not use in production!

## Description

An API Platform powered API service which allows downloading files using various backends.

It is meant to be used as ingest service to centralize download requests to various platforms.
Instead of using multiple downloaders, you can just use this single service.

It routes download requests to the following backends based on their supported domains:
- yt-dlp (YouTube and many other video platforms)
- gallery-dl (Image hosting platforms)

More to be added in the future.

## Companion Extensions

I'm working on a companion (browser) extension for this API.
This extension allows you to interact with the API directly from your browser,
making it easier to manage the downloads and send links to the API.

It will be released for Firefox and Chrome soon.

At the time of writing this, the extension is still in development and not yet published to the browser stores.

## Authentication

Authentication is currently supported using OAuth2. During development, the API is tested using Authentik as a self hosted authentication server, but it should work with any OAuth2 provider.
If you're having issues with setting up authentication with your provider, feel free to open an issue and I'll try to help you out.

## Features
- Download files from various platforms using a single API
- Support for multiple backends
  - yt-dlp 
  - gallery-dl
  - mock backend for testing
- Asynchronous processing of download (depending on number of workers)
- Auto upgrade CLI downloaders
- Easy to extend with additional backends
  - Just create a new class implementing the `App\Service\Downloader\DownloaderInterface` and it's automatically registered
- Dockerized for easy deployment
- API documentation with Swagger UI

### Future Plans (in no particular order)
- [ ] Add more backends for different platforms
  - [ ] Direct HTTP(S) downloads
  - [ ] Pass through torrent and magnet links to various Torrent clients
- [x] Implement authentication and authorization (OAuth2)
- [ ] Server side user configuration (e.g. sending cookies, user agent, proxy settings)
  - [ ] Ability to sync user configuration with the companion browser extension (per option, to be decided by extension)
- [ ] Site/Service specific options (e.g. cookies, user agent, proxy settings, retry settings, etc.)
- [ ] Add support for scheduling downloads
- [ ] Add support for monitoring URLS (periodic checks for new content)
- [ ] Implement retry mechanism for failed downloads
- [ ] Add support for different file formats and quality options
- [ ] Implement user management and quotas
- [ ] Add support for proxy servers
- [ ] Implement notifications (email, SMS, webhooks, etc.) for completed downloads
- [ ] Implement caching for frequently downloaded files
- [ ] Add monitoring and logging features (partially done)
- [ ] Implement rate limiting to prevent abuse
- [ ] Implement a frontend for easier interaction with the API
  - [x] [FetchDock browser extension](https://github.com/FetchDock/fetchdock-extension) for Chrome and Firefox
  - [ ] Web UI for managing downloads
- [ ] Implement a health check endpoint for monitoring the service status
- [ ] (LOW PRIO - OPT IN) Anonymous analytics for developers to improve the service[^1] 
  - [ ] Share domains of (unsupported or unsuccessful) domains (no full URLs)
    - Will be used to prioritize the development of new backends or support of domains/services

## Requirements
- Docker
- Docker Compose (recommended)


## Footnotes

### Usage of AI assisted code generation

#### Usage of AI assistance during code development

I (PBXg33k) use GitHub Co-pilot to assist me during code development.
GitHub Copilot suggests code snippets based on the context of the file I'm working on.
I heavily scrutinize and review every suggestion made by the AI, to ensure quality and correctness.
Suggested code is not blindly accepted, but undergoes scrutiny and testing before being accepted.

I treat AI as a Junior developer, who needs to be supervised and reviewed by a senior developer.

#### Usage of AI assistance on issues and pull requests

Some issues of this project were addressed using AI assisted code generation (GitHub Copilot).

This decision was made to speed up development time, since this is a one-person project and I have limited time to work on it.
This is a side project and a hobby, if you want to support me, consider buying me a coffee: https://buymeacoffee.com/pbxg33k

Every code change made with the help of AI was manually reviewed, heavily scrutinized and tested to ensure quality and correctness.

AI is only used to generate boilerplate code, repetitive tasks and to get suggestions for implementation details.
Code is generated by using extensive explanation prompts, to ensure the generated code is as close as possible to the desired outcome.
Generated code undergoes heavier scrutiny and testing than regular code.

See the following issues and pull requests for reference:
- [#29 - [Core] Implement event system for worker job lifecycle](https://github.com/PBXg33k/php-download-router/pull/29)



[^1]: This is a low priority feature, with the main goal of collecting sites/services which are most popular and the developer(s) can test to improve the service.
Before this feature is picked up, a proper privacy policy will be implemented to protect the user's data and clarify which information is collected and how we use and store it.
Rest assured, the developer(s) will do anything in their power to protect the user's privacy and not share or sell the data with any third party.
